Add Getting Started guide (#223)
steelthreads/agds-next: guides/getting-started.mdx

---
title: Getting started

> type: Code

Reviewer: I don't think we need this right?

title: Getting started
---

Welcome to AgDS - the Design System for the Australian Government Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment.

In this guide, we're going to go through the steps necessary to get started with the React component library from our Design System.

## What is React?

> React is a popular framework for building User Interfaces, which our component library is built on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React is a popular framework for building User Interfaces, which our design system is built on.
```

🤔

> If you’re new to React, we recommend going through official [React getting started documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/hello-world.html), and follow along using the [React Hello World CodePen example](http://codepen.io/gaearon/pen/ZpvBNJ?editors=0010).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re new to React we recommend going through official [React getting started documentation](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/hello-world.html), and follow along using the [React Hello World CodePen example](http://codepen.io/gaearon/pen/ZpvBNJ?editors=0010).
```

## If you’re starting a new project…

> You can [take a look at the code for our example-site](https://github.com/steelthreads/agds-next/tree/main/example-site), which is built on NextJS. Clone the repository and port the code over to a new repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have built an [example site](https://github.com/steelthreads/agds-next/tree/main/example-site) in [NextJS](https://nextjs.org/) which you can clone and use as a starting point.
```

## If you’re implementing components in an existing project…

All of our AgDS components can be used in your existing React application.

In order to get everything working, install the latest versions of these packages…

> `yarn add @ag.ds-next/ag-branding @ag.ds-next/box @ag.ds-next/core @ag.ds-next/text`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`yarn add @ag.ds-next/ag-branding @ag.ds-next/box @ag.ds-next/core @ag.ds-next/text @emotion/react facepaint
`
```

> Then wrap your application in our Core component…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then wrap your application in our `Core` component…
```

```jsx
// This example assumes you are using NextJS.
import Link, { LinkProps } from 'next/link';
import { Core } from '@ag.ds-next/core';
import { theme } from '@ag.ds-next/ag-branding';

function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
	return (
		<Core theme={theme} linkComponent={Link}>
			<Component {...pageProps} />
		</Core>
	);
}

export default MyApp;
```

> The Core component is responsible for enabling our CSS variables, and also make your chosen framework's Link component available to all of the AgDS components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Core` component is responsible for enabling our CSS variables, and also make your chosen framework's Link component available to all of the AgDS components.
```

> The Core component is responsible for enabling our CSS variables, and also make your chosen framework's Link component available to all of the AgDS components.

Reviewer: I think we may need to explain our Link component more 🤔. Maybe just in our docs
